- Hello, everyone. Thanks for being here in the live stream. We're going to kick this
off. Hi, Brian.
- Hey.
- Hey. Let's do this. Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news
and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 266, recorded January 12, 2022.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
- And I'm Brian Okken.
- So great to be here again. And we had this whole survey about having guests, Brian. And
- This week we don't have a guest, it's just you and me,
which I think is cool.
- That's all right, it's good.
- Yeah, yeah.
People out there listening,
if they really wanna be a guest,
they can shoot us a message, right?
But for now, we've got so much cool things,
so many cool things to speak about.
We're gonna need like a glossary or an FAQ,
or I mean, something.
- Yeah, well, actually, I don't know how I missed this
for so long, but there was a tweet by, who was it?
- Trey Hunter had a tweet that it mentioned
and actually referred to the glossary.
And I'm like, what, we have a glossary?
I never checked it out before.
So on the python.org website,
there at docs.python.org, there's a glossary.
And it's actually pretty cool.
There's a whole bunch of stuff.
Like if you forget what abstract base classes are,
it's there.
And there's, so there's Python stuff,
there's programming stuff.
- Even defines what the three arrows mean.
- Yeah, like the three arrows, that's the first one.
Default Python prompt, but also the dot, dot, dot.
What is that?
The ellipses.
And two to three, see this threw me off once
when I first started.
I was like, what's this two to three thing?
Is this a third party package?
And it wasn't obvious to me that it was built in.
So that's kind of neat.
But it shouldn't be an issue anymore
because everybody's on Python three now, right?
So anyway, so the glossary,
I just, just as just a shout out that this is here,
it's fun, so check it out.
The other thing that this refers to
the other documentation in Python a lot.
And one of the things that refers to sometimes is the FAQ.
And also didn't know that was there.
- We have an FAQ.
- Yeah, and it's split into a whole bunch of stuff
like general Python and programming
and history and design and stuff.
And like, and I ran across it because one of the things
I looked up when I followed from the glossary
was this question of what's the difference
between arguments and parameters.
And it's something that I've always messed up.
And now I think I have it.
Parameters are the names of things
that are appearing in the function definition
and the arguments are the values that get passed in.
Neat.
Don't know why I didn't--
- Sometimes people use them interchangeably,
but they kind of talk about different ways
of working with that data.
- Yeah, but like, let's say you're new,
either new to Python or new to programming,
some of these perusals, some of these are great things.
Like why did my changing list Y also change list X?
Well, this will help you understand
why there's the naming system in Python
and stuff like that.
So it's pretty great.
- Yeah, it talks about references and all sorts of stuff.
Yeah, quite cool.
I did know that we had it, but yeah, that's cool.
- You did know it was there?
- No, I did not know it was there.
That's great.
- Okay, yeah.
- I didn't know anything about it.
So I wanna talk about something else.
I wanna talk about any IO.
As I'm sure you and a lot of listeners know,
I'm a big fan of asyncio and async in a wait.
I think it really unlocks a lot of potential
when you're waiting on things.
There's been a lot of analysis saying,
oh, I did this computational thing
and it didn't make it any faster, it made it slower.
It's like, yeah, 'cause it only scales waiting
and you're not waiting.
So when you're talking about waiting,
it's usually has to do with IO with external systems, right?
I'm waiting on the file system, I'm waiting on the database,
I'm waiting on whatever.
So there's this cool library called AnyIO.
So I indirectly learned about this from Sebastian Ramirez
from FastAPI, because he talks about the same thing
about this thing called Asyncr which extends a few things that are ultimately probably going to make
it back to any I/O. So any I/O is an asynchronous networking and concurrency library that works on
top of either Async I/O which is the one we all know and love or Trio which is similar to Async
I/O but it has a larger it has more of an understanding of dependencies between tasks
And things how you can say, I'm going to create a set of work that is made up of these tasks,
and this task is actually a child of that other task.
So if I cancel the top level one, cancel its children,
it's a little bit more complicated, but it solves this structured concurrency story
that people sometimes need.
So you can use this to get some libraries that will do
nice things with stuff you might wait on, right?
So some of the features include there's task groups.
That's the thing I was describing with parent-child relationship type of things.
With Trio, it has high-level networking, TCP, UDP,
an API for byte streams and object streams,
inter-task synchronization and communication,
like locks and conditions and events and semaphores,
worker threads, step processes, all kinds of stuff.
So you go over and you can sort of see some real simple ways for it to run.
So one of the things that's sometimes not entirely obvious
is how do you run something on async.io
because you've got to make sure you've got an async.io event loop running.
And if there's already one, you should call get loop,
but if it's not one, you should create one.
So this is just, I have an async method,
which can be a task and just say, trio.run,
or you can run and just say the back end is trio,
which is pretty cool.
So all sorts of cool stuff like that.
And it just sort of simplifies working with these different things.
If we go and look at the sockets example,
you can just say await async with await
connect TCP, and that's allow you to do like a wait, receive a wait, send and so on.
So some nice libraries that come out of any IO for doing TCP,
UDP, all that kind of stuff, you know, the things you would wait on.
Yeah.
So if you know you're going to use AsyncIO,
would this buy you anything?
I think that it has those additional higher level libraries
for talking to TCP and byte streams and stuff like that,
and also the subprocess thing.
So I think it does have some utility stuff on top of it.
But it's pretty cool.
You can say a wait run subprocess, which is pretty cool.
That's actually, that's really cool.
I've not seen this one before,
and that one kind of makes me excited now.
- Yeah, that's cool.
- Yeah, cool.
So not a whole lot more to say about it than that,
but if those are the types of things you're doing,
then come check it out.
It's a cool library.
- Do you know what else is cool?
- I do not, tell me about it.
(laughing)
- Thought we were doing something else.
- Wait, oh yes, I've got one more thing to talk about
before we move on,
because we have a different number of things.
I'm not sure where I'll slide it in here.
So what else is cool is that this episode
is brought to you by Datadog.
Thank you Datadog for supporting the show.
They've been big supporters of Python Bytes
for a really long time.
So that's fantastic. - Really appreciate it.
Plus really great t-shirts.
- Exactly, they've got cool t-shirts.
I mean, I definitely wanna get one of those.
So Datadog does a lot of things.
One of their things they're focusing on now
is real-time monitoring.
So they have a real-time monitoring platform that unifies metrics, traces, logs
into one tightly integrated platform.
Their APM empowers developers
to identify anomalies, resolve issues, and improve application performance.
We just finished the Talk Python episode talking about running production
and everyone there on the panel was like,
you need to make sure you're monitoring in production
for things that change in your performance profile
because you get too much data as your infrastructure changes,
as the way your app is being used changed.
It could hit these scenarios and run into problems
that you would just never see in testing.
So if you had Datadog APM, you would have caught it.
So you can begin collecting stack traces,
visualize them as flame graphs,
organize them into profile types,
such as these are the CPU metrics,
these are IO and so on.
Teams can search for specific profiles,
correlate them with distributed traces if you're doing microservices
and identify slower underperforming code for analysis and optimization.
Plus, with Datadog's APM live search,
you can perform searches across the full stream of ingest traces
generated by your app over the last 15 minutes.
So try Datadog APM for free with a 14-day trial.
And if you do, you get that t-shirt that Brian mentioned.
So just go to pythonbytes.fm/datadog
or click the link in your podcast player show notes
or in this chapter.
Remember we talked about chapters and links.
I'll have this have a chapter as well.
So thank you Datadog for supporting the show.
Now let's talk about your next item, Brian.
- Yeah, I think it's Vax, Vex, Vex, I don't know.
- Vex?
- Vex.
- Oh, people are gaining traction for the idea
of putting a pronunciation on a GitHub repo
for projects that are not obvious.
- Yeah.
- I saw this on Twitter.
Let's do it, let's make it happen.
So this was suggested by Glenn Ferguson.
This is a library that's a high performance Python library
for lazy out of core data frames.
I don't know what out of core is.
So I looked it up in a glossary.
So out of--
- After the FAQ.
- Yeah, out of core typically refers to processing data
that is too large to fit in the computer's memory.
So yeah, that's what this is.
So for data processing, often you're trying to do
some analysis, do some statistics,
maybe explore the data a little bit,
but you don't wanna read it because they're huge data sets
and you've got like maybe a limited computer.
And so that's what this is set up to do.
The main features of it, so you've got like big data sets.
It also has statistics like mean and sum and count
and standard deviation, et cetera,
but it also has some visualizations that are sped up
from how they've sped things up
and not kept things in memory.
And they're using memory mapping and some tricks inside
to try to avoid any memory copies
and try to do it as lazy as computation as possible.
And this is actually pretty impressive.
I was watching some of the demos.
So there's a SciPy 2019 video.
where it's the person that started this library,
which is now a company also, but does a demo of this.
And it's really impressive how fast things are.
He's pulling things up because of the memory mapping.
You can even have multiple, you know, multiple
Jupyter notebooks.
Yeah, that's it.
Multiple Jupyter notebooks looking at the same huge dataset
and it doesn't slow things down
even when things are working on it, it's pretty neat.
- Oh, that's cool.
- So I definitely think this is worth checking out.
One of the things on the readme that I like
is the key features.
So it's a instant opening of huge data files
because it's memory mapping the data file.
It actually doesn't read,
it doesn't do any reads when you read it.
But when you pull some data out,
it does lazy reads, jumps ahead,
and it's pretty impressive.
So this also has an expression system
so that it's kind of a, there is a little bit of a,
so you can lazy transforms of data.
So that's neat.
Out of core data frames, like we said,
fast group by an aggregations, a whole bunch of,
the fast and efficient joins are interesting.
I was watching, looking at another comparison
of pandas and Dask and other things versus Vax.
And it, the joins of huge tables are pretty fast
and seamless here, and those will blow up some projects.
So yeah, this is--
yes, it is similar to Dask.
Somebody asked, lazy like Dask?
Yes.
But--
>>That's a good thing.
>>Yeah.
Oops.
But yeah, a bunch of fun things.
It's good to have--
it isn't the same as Dask, so it's
worth checking out to see if maybe this one might
be a good fit for you.
- Yeah, that's cool.
It's the lazy that makes the magic, right?
You don't have to load it all from disk.
You can distribute it.
There's all kinds of interesting things.
In the a billion sample per row operation per second,
that sounds pretty good.
- Yeah, watching the demo,
it's incredible how fast he's popping up things
and loading, even to be able to visualize things
by pulling out samples out of the set.
- Wait a minute, Brian, I heard people told me
that Python was slow, so it didn't make sense
to do this kind of stuff with it.
What's going on here?
(laughing)
- No, no, no, Python's fast.
- I know.
So pick the right libraries.
All right, one of the things that is definitely well-known
in the Python world is Django.
I've even had people tell me I came to become
a Django developer, and so I had to learn Python,
which is a really interesting perspective.
- Yeah. - So I wanna talk about
the Django developer survey results for the 2021 survey,
'cause that just recently happened.
So I'll highlight a couple of things
that are interesting over here.
One of the questions was,
what is the main reason you use Django?
Is it both for work, personal or for work?
Only 15% said just for work.
Does that seem like a lower number than you expect?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I thought more people would just like,
they'd go to work and do Django and they'd go home
and they'd, I don't know, watch Game of Thrones or something.
But Django developers love it, and they use it a lot
for all sorts of things.
So by far, the biggest group here, 66%,
is for using it for both.
So that stood out to me.
Another one that's interesting is how many people
are on the latest version.
So web apps often sort of get stuck in the past,
because once you get them up and running,
like people don't want to touch it.
75% of the people are using the three two, which at the time of asking, I believe was
the latest version.
Okay, I'm like, I thought we were up to four now.
What's going on?
I think four is in beta.
I'm not 100% sure.
I don't think it's totally released.
But yeah, this is still members from 2021.
Okay, to 2021.
And then also, Django has this concept of the latest stable release, and then a long
term support release.
So if you go to just the latest stable release,
and it's not LTS, you may have to upgrade sooner
if you want security fixes and so on.
And yet 71% of the people use the latest stable release
because they're upgrading frequently, I'm guessing.
And then 27% are on the latest LTS,
and 2% are just like, how do I upgrade this again?
I don't know.
But that's pretty interesting.
And then the next question was how often.
So 44% of the people upgrade every stable release,
other people less so, and it kind of breaks down.
5%, I use an unsupported version of Django.
I'm okay with that.
Databases for people doing Django is a very strong bias
to use a relational database
because much of the magic of Django
depends upon the Django models, right?
Like the admin section is driven by that
and so many things, and those are all relational.
So with that mind, the most common database,
77% of the time is Postgres SQL, which is cool.
And then, does number two there surprise you, Brian?
- No, not really, SQLite.
- SQLite, yeah.
If you got very simple deployment stories,
you're just gonna put it on one server,
not much data, you just wanna need something relational,
SQLite.
- Well, a lot of internal tools and stuff too.
- Exactly.
I mean, you wouldn't run like a major tech company
on SQLite, get away with it, without scars and tears,
but for simple internal apps,
that might just be what you need.
- You're gonna make some SQLite enemies by saying that.
- But if you had a hundred thousand users
concurrently using SQLite, that might be bad.
- Oh, somebody else said possibly
because SQLite is the default setting.
- Yeah, certainly that's a big push.
The other one is, do you do caching?
So caching is another layer between the database
and your web app where you get the database stuff back
and then you stash it in the memory somewhere
so that you don't have to do queries again.
So they said, do you do that?
And if so, what do you use?
47% Redis, 43%, I don't do that.
And then the only other really notable thing
is memcached.
So interesting there.
And I guess people, if they're really interested,
they come through and look, there's a lot of,
I don't wanna go through it 'cause there's so many details,
but it's like, what are your favorite components?
Like models or admins or auth,
or what contrib apps do you find most useful?
Like humanized or whatever.
So pretty interesting.
No surprise, people are using Django templates,
not Jinja as their main templates.
And then look, it's a race between pytest and UnitTest
as the top two most common frameworks.
- With pytest above UnitTest, that's pretty cool.
Especially since UnitTest is the default.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Let's see, I'll just wrap it up with some front end stuff.
What JavaScript front end frameworks do you most use?
jQuery, number one.
And I don't mean that with a negative way.
Like sometimes you just got some simple problems
and you don't need a whole CLI to build a spot
to like, you know, focus the text box.
All right, React is tied at 37% as well.
And then Vue and then Angular.
And then wow, HTMX made the list.
Look at this.
- That's pretty cool actually.
- That's brand new shininess getting in there.
That's pretty cool.
- I appreciate it still.
- Yeah.
And then CSS, we got Bootstrap way out front
and then Tailwind and then pure CSS.
All right.
So that's the survey results.
Pretty interesting.
- Nice.
- All right, what do you got next for us?
- next we've got more extras.
- We got extras, okay.
Yes, extra, extra, extra, extra, extra, extra.
So I've got so many extras,
I decided to make it one of my topics.
Brian, got anything else before I go on another rant?
- No, I'm just ready to listen to all these extras.
- All right, I got a bunch of good stuff.
So don't let the bad guys into your web apps.
Django just had secured releases for 4.01,
sorry, 4.01, 3.2 and 2.6.6.
Oh, does that mean 4.0 is out?
- Yeah.
- It does look like it. - Nobody's using it.
- Yeah, well, they didn't use it in the past
and it wasn't out.
Paul Everett and I teamed up to create a course
over at Talk Python called Static Sites
with Sphinx and Markdown.
So this course is free, everyone can go take it.
All you gotta do is have an account and go here
and it teaches you how to do Markdown and Sphinx
and generate static sites.
There's a cool little demo app that we build over here
that you can go and do search and click around
and see how you like, you document your code
and do all kinds of stuff.
It's nothing too complicated,
but sort of neat to see how to use Markdown with Sphinx
'cause typically Sphinx is about restructured text.
So check out the course over there.
I'll put that in the show notes.
I'm going to definitely check that out because I've got a project that I wanted to use Sphinx
for but I was a little intimidated.
Cool.
Yeah, Paul does a great job with it.
It's only an hour and 25 minutes or something so it's not a huge investment in time.
Something that's bothered me basically ever since USB-C, what is this, four years or something?
Is I need more ports on my computer and I want them to be USB-C ports because I have
of USB things these days,
'cause I want them to go into the ports that I already have.
Until Thunderbolt 4, you've not been able to get a dock
that has more than one USB-C or Thunderbolt port,
which is super weird to me.
But recently, they've come out with Thunderbolt 4,
and I just got this thing called
the CalDigit Thunderbolt 4 USB4 Element Hub.
And this thing is fantastic.
Brian, I'm talking to you on my computer here,
And I have my 4k monitor, my 1080p camera, my microphone,
my stream deck, the lights, keyboard, mouse, track,
like seven different things, including the monitor
plugged in with one cable through this thing.
- That's really pretty cool.
- It's so sweet.
So basically it has on the front,
it has three USB-C Thunderbolt 4 and a power in.
And then on the side,
It has the Thunderbolt that goes to the computer and then also for USB,
high-speed USB, A, but the good ones.
So really, really cool.
If you need to expand out your new newish computer,
what are you using to plug into the monitor?
I have a Thunderbolt two display port adapter.
And so that way, if I come with my new Mac book, I can just unplug one thing
from my mini, click it over and then boom, I'm ready to go.
Everything's configured.
I'm going to get one of these then.
Yeah, they're not super cheap.
They've been out for about four or five months,
but they've been sold out supply chains,
you know, what time of,
what's going on with supply chains and everything,
but they finally came out there on Amazon.
So I linked to it over on Amazon.
Also linked to this video that by Doc Rock
talking about like, what the heck is this thing
and why is it different?
All right.
I also tweeted about how we use the stream deck
to do our live stream, which was fun.
So I shared a bunch of pictures of that,
like how we like put the website.
So it says how it's streaming, how we tweet automatically,
how we do the sharing and all that kind of stuff.
I'm now gonna be working on how to use that thing
for software development.
Like how do you use it for Jupyter Notebooks?
So every button on the stream deck,
which is 14 free buttons basically,
like what are the 14 Jupyter operations you like to have?
Like run all cells, give you a button.
or format with black could be a button, all sorts of stuff.
So very cool.
- Oh, you just have a black button, like with no logo.
- Yes, yes, that should absolutely be black as well.
So anyway, people are interested in that, that's there.
I did a talk at PyBay quite a while ago.
Now the talk is out.
Carson was kind enough to retweet that
and pointed out that, hey, the talk is actually out.
So I'm linking to my PyBay talk,
which was an in-person talk at a conference.
imagine that in San Francisco.
It was really fun.
People can check that out.
Speaking of conferences,
we are a media sponsor of Python web conference.
And so you can definitely check that out.
This is one of the, honestly,
becoming one of the bigger online conferences.
It's five days all day.
You know, a lot of these online conferences are like,
well, half day, a little thing here.
So a lot of tracks,
a lot of things going on with the Python web conference.
I'm also speaking there as well.
Are you speaking there?
- I'm off to get you pie testing something up there.
- Well, I should probably do some web stuff.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
And so there's a code that you can use.
It's in the show notes, Python bytes at PWC 2022
and I'll give you 15% off.
Also in our neighborhood,
sort of because it's virtual, does that still have meaning?
We have pie cascades coming up
in PyCascades is February 5th and 6th.
So that's gonna be remote.
So it's not really local until things settle down.
So people wherever can take it.
- Well, it's in our time zone.
So it's good.
- That's true.
Time zone still matters.
It absolutely still matters.
All right, that's it for all of my extras.
And we have Patrick out in the audience
pointing out PyCon Italy is also happening in June.
So that's fantastic.
- Yeah.
- Awesome.
- So before we get to the joke,
I wanted to like ask you this brain teaser
that like my daughter brought up.
- On the spot.
- So she, yeah, I'm totally putting you on the spot.
So she came home, I don't know, she's in junior high.
She came home and she said,
"We have this cool brain teaser, just wanna ask you,
just tell me what you think."
So it's a math problem.
So I'm gonna go out,
I'm gonna buy a baseball bat and a baseball.
The total for both the baseball bat and the baseball
are $1.10.
It's pretty cheap.
The difference is the baseball,
the baseball bat is $1 more than the baseball.
So how much is the baseball?
So I'm not gonna, you don't have to answer it right now,
but it tripped me up for a little bit.
I'm like, why is this difficult?
It turns out it's like five cents
because of five cents plus a dollar five is dollar 10.
But my brain went, it's a dollar.
It's a dollar and a dollar.
- That's what mine said, yeah.
- Yeah, but that's a 90 cent difference.
I don't know why this is difficult,
but it's a fun brain teaser to ask people.
- Indeed, ha, funny.
Very cool, well, you know what else is funny?
That feeling of joy that we get as software developers.
But it's mixed in with,
I kind of remember myself screaming at my computer
yesterday, like out loud,
'cause something was so frustrating.
I was just like, how is it possible that this is not working?
Like, what is going on?
It wasn't actually about programming,
it was with some app or something.
It was--
- It's always something else.
- Yes.
Sometimes it's my fault, but anyway.
So the joke is expressing that feeling.
And it's, the sticker says, I hate programming.
I hate programming.
It works.
I love programming.
This is amazing.
Look at it.
It's like childbirth.
Like you forget all the horror and pain.
Like, oh, look at my amazing app.
Like, do you remember like you cried for two days
because like you couldn't get it to query the database
right in production.
- Yeah.
- And you love, right.
But you love it because now it works.
- So I love this.
I was there this morning.
I was like fighting Jenkins
of trying to create a Jenkins job with four repos
and different branches.
And I just like, I hate Jenkins, but.
- If it works or when it works.
- When it works, I'm like, sweet.
I am the smartest person in the world.
I'm ready to do this all the time.
- Fantastic.
All right.
Well, it never ends.
It never ends.
We've been doing this a long time
and we still have these feelings, don't we?
- Yeah.
So.
- Well.
- Yeah.
Thanks a lot, Michael, for another great show.
- Yeah, you as well.
It's always fun.
Thank you everyone for listening.
Catch you all later.
- Bye.